Virtual box installation

Before we begin, youll want to make sure that your device has at least 
80GB of space that you can free up. What I mean by this is, after dedicating 
at least 80GB to a virtual machine you will still have some space left over (IMPORTANT)

The reason for this is because if you run out of space, youll have a headache later on for performance hits. 

Additionally you will need at least 4GB of ram to provide for the VM with 4 spare cores. 
If this does not work for you see the section titled "Minimum Requirements", the rest of this guide will act 
according to the previous specs.


<--------------------- Downloads ---------------------->
(Windows)

--| Download Ubuntu 22.04 LTS
The next thing we need to download is the latest version of Ubuntu. This guide will use the 22.04 LTS version, that is
long term support. This type of version generally is more stable, and, well, supported.
You can either follow this link: https://ubuntu.com/download/desktop/thank-you?version=22.04.1&architecture=amd64
or go to ubuntu.com, at the top middle of the page clicking download, then the one that says "22.04 LTS"
The download will begin automagically!

--| Download Virtual Box
Start off by visiting this link: https://download.virtualbox.org/virtualbox/7.0.4/VirtualBox-7.0.4-154605-Win.exe
or going to virtualbox.org, following to their download page and selecting "Windows Host"

--| Install Virtual Box
Once you have the installer downloaded, double click it to begin the installation.
It will propt you for administrative access, allow it. It needs this to manager the internet connection among other things 
we will discuss later.

-----| Configuring install
If you dont know what you are doing just click next, and accept the install.

You can modify the components it includes with the install as you want, but LEAVE NETWORKING.
This will be needed to allow the virtual machine access to the internet.
The USB support enables the virtual machine to use USB's you plug into your device.
Python support will include some libraries and potentially Python if you dont have it installed already.

--| Ubuntu VM Creation
Now to the fun part, the Virtual Machine. 
run Virtual Box, if it is not already open, and click the "New *" button in the middle of the application.

Click on the bottom "Expert Mode", cause youll be an expert at this after following this guide.

If your Ubuntu ISO is not downloaded yet, youll need to wait untill it has completed before continuing :/
Once you click New, a window appears with a bunch of boxes. 
Name this whatever you like, i prefer to name it "UbUntU for Class", that way I know what its for.
Next youll need to select the ISO Image, this is the ubuntu you just downloaded, youll click the drop down, and the other
 navigate to downloads and it should be there.

After you do this some thing will update, and it will auto detect the version. 
For the Folder, feel free to put it anywhere you feel comfortable, I typically leave it as-is.
Check the box that says "Skip Unattended Install", and click on "Hardware"

------| VM Hardware
This is where we set how much power to give the VM, in our case we need 4Gb of ram, this is measured in Mega bytes,
so youll need to set it to 4096 MB.
Next we need 4 cores, now this says "CPU's" it means cores, set this to 4 and click on Hard Disk.

------| VM Storage
Now this is where we give the VM storage, we need 80 GB so either type or drag this to where it says 80GB.
Make sure that you actually have more than 80Gb, otherwise youll have performance issues, among other headaches. 
For the "File type and Variant" select VMDK (Virtual Machine Disk), This is the fastest of the three formats currently.
I choose to preallocate full size, but it can be resized at any time provided theres free space. This guide will not cover this.

--| Install
Once you've done that click finish, now youll see something like this: <insert image here>
Youll be back on the first screen we started at. Click on Ubuntu, if not already selected, and click "Start".
Now just give it some time, some words and phrases will come onto screen, they can be ignored unless you dont 
see the Orange Ubuntu logo on screen.

Youll have a message on the right side of the screen, feel free to close that one to gain the full screen.
The screen will be black for a while, just let it load untill there is text on screen, at which point youll want to select 
"Try or Install Ubuntu"

Once the Install screen shows up, which will be a purplish background with a window that showes up.

Select Install Ubuntu
Were, going to use a Minimal install. If you are okay with all the extra bloat feel free to
install the normal installation. Then click continue, and make sure erase disk and install Ubuntu. Then click install now.
It will ask again to confirm, click continue.

Select your closest time zone, name your user, and the computer whatever you like. 
As a security advocate id suggest you pick a strong password, and require it upon login. 
You can safely ignore the "Active Directoy" box, and click continue.

If you selected minimal install yours will likely take longer as it needs remove all the extra software prior to the install
In the next section we will fix the resolution and setup Ubuntu quickly.

Once Ubuntu is installed it will request you to restart, after which it will ask you to remove the install media and hit enter.
You can safely ignore this and hit enter.

Once it restarts youll be brought to the login screen.

At this point it will begin the installation period, provided theres no errors and you get a desktop environment,
you have successfully installed Ubuntu 22.04 to virtualbox on your computer! Yay!

--| Optimization & Fixing Resolution
At this point if youve messed around with the display at all youll notice that it is flixkering and glitchy,
we need to install drivers for the virtual display that ubuntu is using.

To do this go to the top left of the screen, click devices, and then "Insert Guest Additions CD".
After this is "inserted" it will "mount" automatically, an then will ask you to run it, run it and this will install the required device drivers.

-| Possible issue #1, Download Guest Editions
If it prompts you to download the iso, download and insert it. If it fails to insert the disc, power off the VM, click settings on the VM from the management screen, click storage, and click on  "Controller" now click on the CD icon with a green plus symbol. Locate the downloaded Virtual Box Guest editions CD, and add it. IF done correctly it will show up with the harddisk.

After this is done, 

If this does not happen, on the left side of the screen will be a CD, click it, and it will open a folder, right click in the folder 
select "Open in terminal", this will open an terminal instance, and then run the following "./autorun.sh" 
This will run the installer for the utils needed for the VM.

After you do this and it installs, restart your VM and when it boots back up you will be able to resize the VM.

----| Settings

At this point we're only missing updates, which we can fix with the following command:
sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade 

We need internet at this point, so make sure that in the top right you either have wifi, or see the 3 node looking icon. (Ethernet)

Then press the windows key and then type "Terminal", open terminal and run the command above.
You can also click the 9 dots on the bottom left, and click on terminal in the middle of the screen. Then run the command
above.

It will propmt for your password, and then download and install any required update

And just like that you have a working and up-to-date virtual machine running Ubuntu 22.04 LTS

||||------End Windows-----||||
