VMWare installation

Before we begin, youll want to make sure that your device has at least 
80GB of space that you can free up. What I mean by this is, after dedicating 
at least 80GB to a virtual machine you will still have some space left over (IMPORTANT)

The reason for this is because if you run out of space, youll have a headache later on for performance hits. 

Additionally you will need at least 4GB of ram to provide for the VM with 4 spare cores. 
If this does not work for you see the section titled "Minimum Requirements", the rest of this guide will act 
according to the previous specs.


<--------------------- Downloads ---------------------->
(Windows)

--| Download Ubuntu 22.04 LTS
The next thing we need to download is the latest version of Ubuntu. This guide will use the 22.04 LTS version, that is
long term support. This type of version generally is more stable, and, well, supported.
You can either follow this link: https://ubuntu.com/download/desktop/thank-you?version=22.04.1&architecture=amd64
or go to ubuntu.com, at the top middle of the page clicking download, then the one that says "22.04 LTS"
The download will begin automagically!

--| Download VMWare
Start off by visiting this link: https://customerconnect.vmware.com/en/downloads/details?downloadGroup=WKST-PLAYER-1700&productId=1377&rPId=97014
or going to vmware.com, clicking the search icon, searching "Workstation Player", clicking the first link, scroll down, click Resources
Scroll down, and click Download; which opens a new window, then click "Go to Downloads", then click "Download Now" for the Windows version.

--| Install VMware
Once you have the installer downloaded, double click it to begin the installation.
It will propt you for administrative access, allow it. It needs this to manager the internet connection among other things 
we will discuss later.

-----| Configuring install
If you dont know what you are doing just click next, and accept the install.

Otherwise, Click next, accept thier TOS, and check "Enhanced Keyboard Driver", and leave PATH checked.
The keyboard driver makes it easier for the VM to use the keyboard, and PATH enables it use tools later on.
Click Next, and I uncheck the Customer Experience Improovement Program, but these two are up to you. click next, and install.

It will install it and request a restart, you do not need a license.

--| Ubuntu VM Creation
Now to the fun part, the Virtual Machine. 
run VMware, if it is not already open, and click the "Create New Virtual Machine" button in the middle of the application.

If your Ubuntu ISO is not downloaded yet, youll need to wait untill it has completed before continuing :/
Once you click New, a window appears with a bunch of boxes. 

Select the Installer Disc, it will tell you its using "Easy Install", thats just a sped up version of the install, this doesnt affect the machine
Enter the user account information, and click next.

------| VM Storage
Now this is where we give the VM storage, we need 80 GB so either type or drag this to where it says 80GB.
Make sure that you actually have more than 80Gb, otherwise youll have performance issues, among other headaches. 
Whether you choose to leave it as multiple files or single file is up to you, I choose single file, mostly for performance.
After clicking next, make sure to click "Customize Hardware"

------| VM Hardware
Now to change the hardware section of the virutal machine. There will be a few options in here we need to change.
Fist make sure Memory says "4 GB" or something more, if you need to give your machine less, see the "Minimization" section
Next click "Processors" and set it to 4. Leave the other things unchecked.
Click Close, and click "Finish"

--| Install
Youll be back on the first screen we started at. and if you checked "Power on VM after creation" it will autostart.
If not already started, click on the VM and start it.
Now just give it some time, some words and phrases will come onto screen, they can be ignored unless you dont 
see the Orange Ubuntu logo on screen.

The screen will be black for a while, just let it load untill there is text on screen, at which point youll want to select 
"Try or Install Ubuntu"

Once the Install screen shows up, which will be a purplish background with a window that shows up.

Select Install Ubuntu
Were, going to use a Minimal install. If you are okay with all the extra bloat feel free to
install the normal installation. Then click continue, and make sure erase disk and install Ubuntu. Then click install now.
It will ask again to confirm, click continue.

Select your closest time zone, name your user, and the computer whatever you like. 
As a security advocate id suggest you pick a strong password, and require it upon login. 
You can safely ignore the "Active Directoy" box, and click continue.

If you selected minimal install yours will likely take longer as it needs remove all the extra software prior to the install
In the next section we will fix the resolution and setup Ubuntu quickly.

Once Ubuntu is installed it will request you to restart, after which it will ask you to remove the install media and hit enter.
You can safely ignore this and hit enter.

Once it restarts youll be brought to the login screen.

At this point it will begin the installation period, provided theres no errors and you get a desktop environment,
you have successfully installed Ubuntu 22.04 to VMware on your computer! Yay!

----| Settings

At this point we're only missing updates, which we can fix with the following command:
sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade 

We need internet at this point, so make sure that in the top right you either have wifi, or see the 3 node looking icon. (Ethernet)

Then press the windows key and then type "Terminal", open terminal and run the command above.
You can also click the 9 dots on the bottom left, and click on terminal in the middle of the screen. Then run the command
above.

It will propmt for your password, and then download and install any required update

And just like that you have a working and up-to-date virtual machine running Ubuntu 22.04 LTS

||||------End Windows-----||||
